# Overview

Endogenous *trans*-RNA-seq analysis

# Requirements

All the environment of the analysis steps were devloped as docker images.

Host requirements:

+ Ubuntu 20.04.6 LTS
+ Docker version 25.0.5
+ VScode version 1.80.2 with the following extensions:
  + Dev Containers v0.299.0
  + Docker v1.26.0

# Contents

## Read preprocessing

`preprocessing/`

Adapter removal, rRNA mapping, and mRNA mapping of the reads.

All the steps were done in a docker image defined in `preprocessing/dockerfile`. Building the docker image will take a few minutes.

The FASTQ data together with metadata should be prepared. The sample metafile `exp_metadata.csv` is under `preprocessing/data`.The output `.bam` file is loaded by the custom python scripts under `figures/` and used for making figures and further analysis.

A custom reference transcriptome was generated by the code in `preprocessing/ref`. The reference contains one principle transcript isoform per gene selected by APPRIS score and CDS or transcript length.

## Making figures

`figures/`

Processing the read alignment file (`.bam`) and making figures.

All the steps were done in a remote container of VScode defined in `figures/devcontainer`. The required python packages are listed in `figures/devcontainer/requirements.txt`. Building the devcontainer will take a few minutes.

The figures were made by a custom python code under `figures`. The shared functions are written in python scripts under `myRiboSeq`. Loading the alignment information from `.bam` file into the custom binary format will take a few minutes.

The sample datasets are under `figures/sample_data`.

+ `prep_data/dat_*.bin.gz`: The read alignment information from `.bam` file in the custom binary format defined in `figures/myRiboSeq/myRiboBin,py`. 

The sample results are under `figures/sample_retuls`.

# Contact

Saori Uematsu: su64@cornell.edu, saorid6e9p6p9@gmail.com
